spring-cloud-starter-stream-processor-counter/README.adoc, before:

//tag::ref-doc[]

:images-asciidoc: https://github.com/spring-cloud-stream-app-starters/analytics/raw/master/spring-cloud-starter-stream-common-analytics/src/test/resources
= Counter Processor

Pass-Through Processor that computes multiple Counters from the messages that pass through. The input messages are re-send unchanged!
Using the Micrometer library the Counter Processor integrates with the popular TSDB for persisting and processing the counter values.

By default the Counter Processor increments the `message`.`name` counter on every received message. The `message-counter-enabled` controls the behavior of the message counter.

If tag expressions are provided (via the `counter.tag.expression.<tagKey>=<tagValue SpEL expression> property) then the `name` counter is incremented. Every SpEL expression may evaluate into multiple values causing multiple counter increments for the same message (one fore every value resolved).

If `fixed tags` are provided they are include in all message and expression counters.

Counter's implementation is based on the https://micrometer.io/[Micrometer library] which is a Vendor-neutral application metrics facade that supports the most popular monitoring systems.
See the https://micrometer.io/docs[Micrometer documentation] for the list of supported monitoring systems. Starting with Spring Boot 2.0, Micrometer is the instrumentation library powering the delivery of application metrics from Spring Boot.

All Spring Cloud Stream App Starters are configured to support two of the most popular monitoring systems, Prometheus and InfluxDB. You can declaratively select which monitoring system to use.
If you are not using Prometheus or InfluxDB, you can customise the App starters to use a different monitoring system as well as include your preferred micrometer monitoring system library in your own custom applications.

https://grafana.com/[Grafana] is a popular platform for building visualization dashboards.

To enable Micrometer’s Prometheus meter registry for Spring Cloud Stream application starters, set the following properties.

```
management.metrics.export.prometheus.enabled=true
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=prometheus
```

and disable the application’s security which allows for a simple Prometheus configuration to scrape counter information by setting the following property.

```
spring.cloud.streamapp.security.enabled=false
```

To enable Micrometer’s Influx meter registry for Spring Cloud Stream application starters, set the following property.

```
management.metrics.export.influx.enabled=true
management.metrics.export.influx.uri={influxdb-server-url}
```

NOTE: if the https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-dataflow/docs/2.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/#streams-monitoring[Data Flow Server metrics] is enabled then the `Counter` will reuse the exiting configurations.

Following diagram illustrates Counter's information collection and processing flow.

image::{images-asciidoc}/MicrometerCounterAppStarter.png[Counter Architecture, scaledwidth="70%"]


== Options

//tag::configuration-properties[]
$$counter.message-counter-enabled$$:: $$Enables counting the number of messages processed. Uses the 'message.' counter name prefix to distinct it form the expression based counter. The message counter includes the fixed tags when provided.$$ *($$Boolean$$, default: `$$true$$`)*
$$counter.name$$:: $$The name of the counter to increment.$$ *($$String$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.name-expression$$:: $$A SpEL expression (against the incoming Message) to derive the name of the counter to increment.$$ *($$Expression$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.tag.expression$$:: $$Computes tags from SpEL expression. Single SpEL expression can produce an array of values, which in turn means distinct name/value tags. Every name/value tag will produce a separate counter increment. Tag expression format is: counter.tag.expression.[tag-name]=[SpEL expression]$$ *($$Map<String, Expression>$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.tag.fixed$$:: $$Custom tags assigned to every counter increment measurements. This is a map so the property convention fixed tags is: counter.tag.fixed.[tag-name]=[tag-value]$$ *($$Map<String, String>$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
//end::configuration-properties[]

//end::ref-doc[]

== Build

Build involves two-stages. First build the apps and generate the binder specific app starters projects:
```
$ ./mvnw clean install -PgenerateApps
```

You can find the corresponding binder based projects in the `apps` subfolder. You can then cd into the apps folder:

```
$ cd apps
```
and build all binder projects
```
$ ./mvnw clean package
```

== Examples

```
java -jar counter-processor.jar ... use the properties TODO
```

And here is a example pipeline that uses counter:

```
counter-stream= TODO
```

Commit message:

Allow to compute the counter amount from SpEL expression

spring-cloud-starter-stream-processor-counter/README.adoc, after:

//tag::ref-doc[]

:images-asciidoc: https://github.com/spring-cloud-stream-app-starters/analytics/raw/master/spring-cloud-starter-stream-common-analytics/src/test/resources
= Counter Processor

Pass-Through Processor that computes multiple Counters from the messages that pass through. The input messages are re-send unchanged!
Using the Micrometer library the Counter Processor integrates with the popular TSDB for persisting and processing the counter values.

By default the Counter Processor increments the `message`.`name` counter on every received message. The `message-counter-enabled` controls the behavior of the message counter.

If tag expressions are provided (via the `counter.tag.expression.<tagKey>=<tagValue SpEL expression> property) then the `name` counter is incremented. Every SpEL expression may evaluate into multiple values causing multiple counter increments for the same message (one fore every value resolved).

If `fixed tags` are provided they are include in all message and expression counters.

Counter's implementation is based on the https://micrometer.io/[Micrometer library] which is a Vendor-neutral application metrics facade that supports the most popular monitoring systems.
See the https://micrometer.io/docs[Micrometer documentation] for the list of supported monitoring systems. Starting with Spring Boot 2.0, Micrometer is the instrumentation library powering the delivery of application metrics from Spring Boot.

All Spring Cloud Stream App Starters are configured to support two of the most popular monitoring systems, Prometheus and InfluxDB. You can declaratively select which monitoring system to use.
If you are not using Prometheus or InfluxDB, you can customise the App starters to use a different monitoring system as well as include your preferred micrometer monitoring system library in your own custom applications.

https://grafana.com/[Grafana] is a popular platform for building visualization dashboards.

To enable Micrometer’s Prometheus meter registry for Spring Cloud Stream application starters, set the following properties.

```
management.metrics.export.prometheus.enabled=true
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include=prometheus
```

and disable the application’s security which allows for a simple Prometheus configuration to scrape counter information by setting the following property.

```
spring.cloud.streamapp.security.enabled=false
```

To enable Micrometer’s Influx meter registry for Spring Cloud Stream application starters, set the following property.

```
management.metrics.export.influx.enabled=true
management.metrics.export.influx.uri={influxdb-server-url}
```

NOTE: if the https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-dataflow/docs/2.0.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT/reference/htmlsingle/#streams-monitoring[Data Flow Server metrics] is enabled then the `Counter` will reuse the exiting configurations.

Following diagram illustrates Counter's information collection and processing flow.

image::{images-asciidoc}/MicrometerCounterAppStarter.png[Counter Architecture, scaledwidth="70%"]


== Options

//tag::configuration-properties[]
$$counter.amount-expression$$:: $$A SpEL expression (against the incoming Message) to derive the amount to add to the counter. If not set the counter is incremented by 1.0$$ *($$Expression$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.message-counter-enabled$$:: $$Enables counting the number of messages processed. Uses the 'message.' counter name prefix to distinct it form the expression based counter. The message counter includes the fixed tags when provided.$$ *($$Boolean$$, default: `$$true$$`)*
$$counter.name$$:: $$The name of the counter to increment. The 'name' and 'nameExpression' are mutually exclusive. Only one can be set.$$ *($$String$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.name-expression$$:: $$A SpEL expression (against the incoming Message) to derive the name of the counter to increment. The 'name' and 'nameExpression' are mutually exclusive. Only one can be set.$$ *($$Expression$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.tag.expression$$:: $$Computes tags from SpEL expression. Single SpEL expression can produce an array of values, which in turn means distinct name/value tags. Every name/value tag will produce a separate counter increment. Tag expression format is: counter.tag.expression.[tag-name]=[SpEL expression]$$ *($$Map<String, Expression>$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
$$counter.tag.fixed$$:: $$Custom tags assigned to every counter increment measurements. This is a map so the property convention fixed tags is: counter.tag.fixed.[tag-name]=[tag-value]$$ *($$Map<String, String>$$, default: `$$<none>$$`)*
//end::configuration-properties[]

//end::ref-doc[]

== Build

Build involves two-stages. First build the apps and generate the binder specific app starters projects:
```
$ ./mvnw clean install -PgenerateApps
```

You can find the corresponding binder based projects in the `apps` subfolder. You can then cd into the apps folder:

```
$ cd apps
```
and build all binder projects
```
$ ./mvnw clean package
```

== Examples

```
java -jar counter-processor.jar ... use the properties TODO
```

And here is a example pipeline that uses counter:

```
counter-stream= TODO
```
